feat: add documentation on missing workspace components (#49)
ForestAdmin/documentation-user-guide: workspaces/building-a-workspace/README.md

## Understanding how components work

### Section component

> The section component lets you regroup multiple components into a single area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Section** component lets you regroup multiple components into a single component.
It enables you to configure the visibility for all the components inside only through the Section component.
It also enable you to drag the components inside altogether. 

```

### Tabs Component

> As the [section component](./#section-component), the tabs components lets you regroup multiple component into a single area, only the active tab components are displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like the [section component](./#section-component), the tabs components lets you regroup multiple components into a single area, only the active tab components are displayed.
```

> Like the [section component](./#section-component), the tabs components lets you regroup multiple components into a single area, only the active tab components are displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Tabs** components lets you regroup multiple components into tabulations. You will then be able to see the components by selecting the tabulation, just like pages.
```

Reviewer: No ?

Author: I think tab is a classic one, we don't have to explain the tabs behavior in details

> The tabs component can hold between 1 and 10 tabs.

Reviewer 3: Your new line is not kept in the documentation. It would be nice to have it working 🙏

### Text Component

Write anything you wish to display, then customize how it's displayed using the style options.

{% hint style="info" %}
You can add [custom style](./#styling-your-components) on this component
{% endhint %}

### Link Component

> The link component lets you create a link on the workspace there are 2 modes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Link** component lets you create a link on the workspace. There are 2 modes:
```

> - **Custom**: you can set the url you want, and in this url you can use the value of another component selected record. e.g.: `https://mydomain/posts/{{collection1.selectedRecord.id}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Custom**: you can set the url you want, and in this url you can use some real data from another component. e.g.: `https://mydomain/posts/{{collection1.selectedRecord.id}}`
```

Reviewer: No ?

Author: It doesn't make it clearer IMO 😅

> - **Redirect to record**: when this option is used, clicking the link will redirect on the record.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Redirect to record**: Create a link to a record details view.
```

> - **Redirect to record**: when this option is used, clicking the link will redirect on the record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Redirect to record**: by using this option, clicking the link will redirect you on the record's detail page. 
```

{% hint style="info" %}
You can add [custom style](./#styling-your-components) on this component
{% endhint %}

### Divider Components

You can use the horizontal and vertical dividers to create a visual separation between components.

{% hint style="info" %}
You can add [custom style](./#styling-your-components) on this component
{% endhint %}

### Search Component

Use the Search component to quickly select a record within a given Collection:

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/image (81).png>)

> With the above settings, you'll be searching within **all fields** of your `Company` records and displaying the [reference field](../../collections/manage-your-collection-settings.md#general-tab).

Reviewer 3: ![Screenshot 2025-03-11 at 15 52 46](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d87bc9d4-6344-407d-80bf-03105315a337)
Not up to date, there is a Field to display now

> The Search component can then be used in other components like Field ("on record from"), Text, (templating), Collection (templating in filter), Chart (templating in filter), etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Search component can then be used in other component configurations. ex: Field ("on record from"), Text, Collection (templating in filter), Chart (templating in filter), etc.
```

Reviewer: This description is the same than below. Please remove one of them

{% hint style="info" %}

> You can use this component as a source for other component ([Field](./#field-component), [Link](./#link-component), [Text](./#text-component)) or use it in filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use this component as a source for other components ([Field](./#field-component), [Link](./#link-component), [Text](./#text-component)) or use it in filters.
```

> You can use this component as a source for other components ([Field](./#field-component), [Link](./#link-component), [Text](./#text-component)) or use it in filters.

Reviewer: I think you have twice the same explanation. I personnaly prefer this one

{% endhint %}

### Collection Component

The collection component lets you visualize your data and select records in a workspace.
There are 2 types for the collection component, _Collection_ and _Relationship_.

The _Collection_ type behaves as a regular collection in Forest Admin. You can select records, trigger actions, filter and so on.

The _Relationship_ type lets you visualize your has-many relationships. To make it work, you need to use another workspace component as the source.

> Let's say you have a user collection, and on user can have multiple documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's say you have a user collection, and one user can have multiple documents.
```

You can use a search component to search for a user, and use the _Collection Relationship_ component to list all the documents of a selected user.

> For the 2 types of collection component, you can do the followings (independently from the regular collection settings):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the 2 types of collection components, you can do the following (independently from the regular collection settings):
```

- Add a custom filter on the collection
- Add a custom sorting field and sorting order
- Customize the displayed columns
- Reorder the displayed columns

> - Disabled the search, or the actions for this component

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Disable the search, or the actions for this component
```

{% hint style="info" %}

> You can use this component as a source for other component ([Field](./#field-component), [Link](./#link-component), [Text](./#text-component)) or use it in filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use this component as a source for other components ([Field](./#field-component), [Link](./#link-component), [Text](./#text-component)) or use it in filters.
```

{% endhint %}

### Inbox Component

The inbox component lets your operator treat their [inbox](../../other-tabs/collaboration/distribute-tasks-with-inboxes.md) tasks directly from a workspace.

{% hint style="info" %}

> You can use this component as a source for other component ([Field](./#field-component), [Link](./#link-component), [Text](./#text-component)) or use it in filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use this component as a source for other components ([Field](./#field-component), [Link](./#link-component), [Text](./#text-component)) or use it in filters.
```

}
```

### Date Picker Component

The date picker component lets your operator choose a date. You can set maximum and / or minimum dates that are enabled.

> Minimum and maximum dates can be hardcoded or use [templating](./#making-your-components-interact) to get a date from a selected record.

Reviewer 3: `to get a date from a selected record` 
Well the better usecase is actually using the `currentDate` templating not using a selectedRecord. You should talk about it

### Toggle Component

> The toggle component can be used as an input, for example to dynamically filter on a collection or search component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The toggle component can be used as an input, for example to dynamically filter on a collection or a search component.
```

> It can also be used to display the value of a boolean field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define your value, the type of your value, in order to customize your filters and activate them in one click.
```

Reviewer: Maybe merge this line and the precedent one to not be redundant

> It can also be used to display the value of a boolean field.

Reviewer 3: The description is hard to understand here 😞

### Input Component

> The input component is an input, you should use it when you want to dynamically filter a collection or a search component using a text or a number.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The input component is an input.
You should use it when you want to dynamically filter a collection or a search component using a text or a number.
```

### Action Component

> The **Action** component can be used to trigger `global,` `single`, and `bulk` Smart Actions as well as CRUD operations.&#x20;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **Action** component can be used to trigger `global`, `single`, and `bulk` Smart Actions as well as CRUD operations.&#x20;
```

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2022-10-05 at 16.56.40.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

If you've selected an action that requires selected record(s) to apply to, then you'll need to specify a source component:

Here we have linked the `action2` component so that when you select a record from the`collection1` component, you'll be able to trigger the _Edit a company_ action in 1 click.&#x20;

### The Field Component

The **Field** component lets you read data of a record that you selected in a "source" component.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}

> **Source** components are components that let you select a record: Collection, Search, Dropdown components can be source components.

Reviewer 3: And what about Inbox component ?

This is a basic query string based input that can interact with workspace context.

For example if your dashboard take `projectId` as parameters, you can put the following as option input.

```
projectId=1
```

or

```

> projectId={{searchComponent.selectedRecord.id}}

Reviewer 3: There is a section `Adding related data` that we should delete

Reviewer 3: Or rename it and update the description
